.TH MAN-HOWTO 7 "January 2020" "Dotfiles" "Eth's Dotfiles Manual"
.SH NAME
man-howto \- a short howto on writing manpages
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS Manual sections
.TP
.B 1 User commands
For example,
.BR git (1).
.TP
.B 2 System calls
For example,
.BR open (2).
.TP
.B 3 Library calls
For example,
.BR printf (3).
.TP
.B 4 Special files and drivers
For example,
.BR null (4).
.TP
.B 5 File formats and configuration files
For example,
.BR rsyncd.conf (5).
.TP
.B 6 Games
This also exists.
.TP
.B 7 Miscellaneous
For example,
.BR man-howto (7).
.TP
.B 8 Administration & root-only commands
For example,
.BR fdisk (8).
.\"
.SS Headings
.TP
.B NAME
The name of the manpage, and a short description (also used for \fBman \-k\fR).
.TP
.B SYNOPSIS
For commands, a brief summary of the command's args.
.TP
.B DESCRIPTION
A long description of the command or subject at hand.
.TP
.B OPTIONS
For commands, a list of possible options and flags.
.TP
.B ENVIRONMENT
Any important related environment variables.
.TP
.B FILES
Any important related files.
.TP
.B NOTES
Miscellaneous notes.
.TP
.B BUGS
Known bugs.
.TP
.B EXAMPLE / EXAMPLES
One or more worked examples.
.TP
.B SEE ALSO
A list of related manpages.
.\"
.SS Syntax
.PP
A given line is either just text, or starts with some command.
For example,
.PP
.RS
.nf
I am just a line of text,
\&.B but I am bold.
.fi
.RE
.PP
Some statements have semantic meaning, such as,
.PP
.RS
.TP
\fB\&.TH\fR \fIname section date source manual\fR
(only name and section are required)
.TP
\fB\&.SH\fR \fISECTION\fR
.TP
\fB\&.SS\fR \fISubsection\fR
.RE
\"
.SS In-line formatting
.PP
It is also possible to perform some formatting in-line, for example,
.PP
.RS
A normal line of text \\fBwith bold\\fR in the middle.
.RE
.SS Code snippets
.PP
One can do code examples using \fB\&.nf\fR and \fB\&.fi\fR,
.PP
.RS
.nf
\&.PP
The config file:
\&.PP
\&.RS
\&.nf
meow {
  purr = mew
}
\&.fi
\&.RE
.fi
.RE
.SS Command list
.TS
l l
---
l l.
Command	Meaning
\&.PP	New Paragraph
\&.TP	Tab Paragraph
\&.IP	Indented Paragraph
\&.RS	Relative Indent Start
\&.RE	Relative Indent End
\&.TS	Table Start
\&.TE	Table End
\&.nf	Turn off paragraphs
\&.fi	Turn on paragraphs
\&.B	All of the line is bold.
\&.BR	The first word of the line is bold, the rest are normal.
\&.I	All of the line is italic (underline).
\&.IR	The first word of the line is italic, the rest are normal.
\&.\\"	Comment, useful for spacing long sections
.TE
.\"
.SH NOTES
Because \fBtroff\fR started life as a typesetter, \fB\-\fR on its own is a hyphen, and \fB\\-\fR is a tack or minus.
So, \fBin-line\fR is OK, but it is always \fBrm \\-rf\fR or \fBcurl \\-\\-verbose\fR.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
\&.TH meow 1 "December 2019" Cat "Cat Owner's Manual"
\&.SH NAME
meow \\- make cute noises
\&.SH SYNOPSIS
\&.B meow
[\\fB\\-n\\fR \\fITIMES\\fR]
\&.SH DESCRIPTION
\&.B meow
nyans a given number of times.
\&.SH EXAMPLE
\&.\\" turn paragraph mode off.
\&.nf
$ meow -n 3
meow meow meow
\&.\\" turn paragraph mode back on.
\&.fi
\&.\\"
\&.SH SEE ALSO
\&.BR meow (7),
\&.BR woof (1)
.fi
.\"
.SH LINKS
https://liw.fi/manpages/
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR man (1),
.BR man-pages (7)
