.TH NIX-BUILTINS 5 "June 2021" "Dotfiles" "Eth's Dotfiles Manual"
.SH NAME
nix-builtins \- a summary of the Nix builtin functions

.SH BUILTIN FUNCTIONS

.TP
builtins.abort \fIs\fR
Abort execution, and print error message \fIs\fR.

.TP
builtins.add \fIn1\fR \fIn2\fR
Add \fIn1\fR to \fIn2\fR.

.TP
builtins.all \fIf\fR \fIlist\fR
Returns whether \fIf\fR returns true for all elements in \fIlist\fR.

.TP
builtins.any \fIf\fR \fIlist\fR
Returns whether \fIf\fR returns true for any element in \fIlist\fR.

.TP
builtins.attrNames \fIset\fR
Return the names of \fIset\fR, sorted alphabetically.

.TP
builtins.attrValues \fIset\fR
Return the values of \fIset\fR, sorted by attribute name.

.TP
builtins.baseNameOf \fIs\fR
Return the filename part of \fIs\fR, a la \fBbasename\fR.

.TP
builtins.bitAnd \fIi1\fR \fIi2\fR
Return the bitwise AND of integers \fIi1\fR and \fIi2\fR.

.TP
builtins.bitOr \fIi1\fR \fIi2\fR
Return the bitwise OR of integers \fIi1\fR and \fIi2\fR.

.TP
builtins.bitXor \fIi1\fR \fIi2\fR
Return the bitwise XOR of integers \fIi1\fR and \fIi2\fR.

.TP
builtins.compareVersions \fIs1\fR \fIs2\fR
Return -1 if \fIs1\fR is older than \fIs2\fR, 1 if \fIs1\fR is newer than \fIs2\fR, and 0 if they are the same.

.TP
builtins.concatLists \fIlists\fR
Concat a list of \fIlists\fR.

.TP
builtins.concatStringsSep \fIs\fR \fIlist\fR
Concat a \fIlist\fR of strings by \fIs\fR.

.TP
builtins.currentSystem
The current platform, e.g. "aarch64-linux" or "x86_64-darwin".

.TP
builtins.deepSeq \fIe1\fR \fIe2\fR
Recursively evaluate \fIe1\fR, then return \fIe2\fR.

.TP
builtins.derivation \fIattrs\fR
Returns the Derivation of attribute set \fIattrs\fR.

.TP
builtins.dirOf \fIs\fR
Return the directory part of \fIs\fR, a la \fBdirname\fR.

.TP
builtins.div \fIn1\fR \fIn2\fR
Divide \fIn1\fR by \fIn2\fR.

.TP
builtins.elem \fIe\fR \fIlist\fR
Return whether \fIe\fR is in \fIlist\fR.

.TP
builtins.elemAt \fIlist\fR \fIn\fR
Return the element of \fIlist\fR at index \fIn\fR.

.TP
builtins.fetchurl \fIurl\fR
Download \fIurl\fR and return the path.

.TP
builtins.fetchTarball \fIurl\fR
Download \fIurl\fR, extract it, and return the path.

.TP
builtins.fetchTarball { \fIurl\fR, \fIsha256\fR }
Download \fIurl\fR, extract it, and return the path, aborting if \fIsha256\fR does not match.

.TP
builtins.fetchGit { \fIurl\fR, \fIname\fR, \fIrev\fR, \fIref\fR }
.TS
l l
---
l l.
Name	Meaning
url	Required. The URL of the Git repo.
name	Optional. The name of the repo when added to the Nix Store.
rev	Optional, default is the tip of \fIref\fR. The Git revision to fetch.
ref	Optional, default \fBHEAD\fR. The Git ref to fetch.
.TE

.TP
builtins.filter \fIf\fR \fIlist\fR
Filter \fIlist\fR by \fIf\fR.

.TP
builtins.filterSource \fIfilterFn\fR \fIpath\fR
Return the contents of directory \fIpath\fR that match \fIfilterFn\fR, where \fIfilterFn\fR is of type \fB(path, type) -> bool\fR, where \fBtype\fR is one of: "regular", "directory", "symlink", or "unknown".

.TP
builtins.foldl’ \fIf\fR \fIe\fR \fIlist\fR
Reduce \fIlist\fR by applying \fIf\fR from left to right, with initial value \fIe\fR.

.TP
builtins.functionArgs \fIf\fR
Return the set arguments of \fIf\fR (e.g. { a, b ? 1 }: ...) as a set of \fBname\fR to whether the argument has a default value (e.g. { a = false; b = true; }).

.TP
builtins.fromJSON \fIs\fR
Convert a JSON string \fIs\fR to a Nix expression object.

.TP
builtins.genList \fIgeneratorFn\fR \fIlength\fR
Generate a list of \fIlength\fR elements, where \fIgeneratorFn\fR of type \fBindex -> expression\fR.

.TP
builtins.getAttr \fIs\fR \fIset\fR
Returns the attribute \fIs\fR from \fIset\fR, aborting if it doesn't exist.

.TP
builtins.getEnv \fIs\fR
Returns the environment variable \fIs\fR, or "" if it is not set.

.TP
builtins.hasAttr \fIs\fR \fIset\fR
Returns whether \fIset\fR has an attribute \fIs\fR.

.TP
builtins.hashFile \fIhashType\fR \fIpath\fR
Return a base-16 string of the hash of the contents of \fIpath\fR, where \fIhashType\fR is one of: "md5", "sha1", "sha256", or "sha512".

.TP
builtins.hashString \fIhashType\fR \fIs\fR
Return a base-16 string of the hash of \fIs\fR, where \fIhashType\fR is one of: "md5", "sha1", "sha256", or "sha512".

.TP
builtins.head \fIlist\fR
Return the first element of \fIlist\fR, aborting if there isn't one.

.TP
builtins.import \fIpath\fR
Load the Nix expression at \fIpath\fR.

.TP
builtins.intersectAttrs \fIset1\fR \fIset2\fR
Return a set with the attributes of \fIset2\fR that also exist in \fIset1\fR.

.TP
builtins.isAttrs \fIe\fR
Returns whether \fIe\fR is an attribute set.

.TP
builtins.isBool \fIe\fR
Returns whether \fIe\fR is a bool.

.TP
builtins.isFloat \fIe\fR
Returns whether \fIe\fR is a float.

.TP
builtins.isFunction \fIe\fR
Returns whether \fIe\fR is a function.

.TP
builtins.isInt \fIe\fR
Returns whether \fIe\fR is a int.

.TP
builtins.isList \fIe\fR
Returns whether \fIe\fR is a list.

.TP
builtins.isPath \fIe\fR
Returns whether \fIe\fR is a path.

.TP
builtins.isString \fIe\fR
Returns whether \fIe\fR is a string.

.TP
builtins.length \fIlist\fR
Return the length of \fIlist\fR.

.TP
builtins.lessThan \fIn1\fR \fIn2\fR
Return whether \fIn1\fR is less than \fIn2\fR.

.TP
builtins.listToAttrs \fIlist\fR
Convert a list of sets with keys \fBname\fR and \fBvalue\fR to a set.

.TP
builtins.map \fIf\fR \fIlist\fR
Apply \fIf\fR to every element of \fIlist\fR.

.TP
builtins.match \fIregex\fR \fIs\fR
.TS
l l
---
l l.
Example	Output
builtins.match "foo" "bar"	null
builtins.match "foo" "fooo"	null  # exact match required!
builtins.match "foo" "foo"	[ ]
builtins.match "a(b)(c)" "abc"	[ "b" "c" ]
builtins.match "([^c])+c" "abc"	[ "a" ]  # only returns first repeated match!
.TE

.TP
builtins.mul \fIn1\fR \fIn2\fR
Multiple \fIn1\fR by \fIn2\fR.

.TP
builtins.parseDrvName \fIs\fR
Split a derivation name \fIs\fR (e.g. "foo-1.1") into a set of \fBname\fR and \fBversion\fR (e.g. { name = "foo"; version = "1.1"; }).

    Split the string s into a package name and version. The package name is everything up to but not including the first dash followed by a digit, and the version is everything following that dash. The result is returned in a set { name, version }. Thus, builtins.parseDrvName "nix-0.12pre12876" returns { name = "nix"; version = "0.12pre12876"; }.

.TP
builtins.path { \fIpath\fR, \fIname\fR, \fIfilter\fIR, \fIrecursive\fR, \fIsha256\fR }
.TS
l l
---
l l.
Name	Meaning
path	Required. The path to add to the Nix Store.
name	Optional. The name of the path when added to the Store.
filter	Optional. A function as used by \fBbuiltins.filterSource\fR.
recursive	Optional, default \fBtrue\fR. When \fBfalse\fR, \fIpath\fR must be a regular file.
sha256	Optional. A known hash of \fIpath\fR. Will abort if it doesn't match.
.TE

.TP
builtins.pathExists \fIpath\fR
Return whether \fIpath\fR exists or not.

.TP
builtins.placeholder \fIoutput\fR
Return a placeholder string for the specified \fIoutput\fR (e.g. "out", "dev") that will be substituted for the corresponding path at build time. Useful for configure steps, e.g. "PREFIX=${placeholder "out"}/etc".

.TP
builtins.readDir \fIpath\fR
Return the children of directory \fIpath\fR as a set of \fBname\fR to \fBtype\fR, where type is one of: "regular", "directory", "symlink", or "unknown".

.TP
builtins.readFile \fIpath\fR
Return the contents of \fIpath\fR as a string.

.TP
builtins.removeAttrs \fIset\fR \fIlist\fR
Remove all attributes in \fIlist\fR in \fIset\fR.

.TP
builtins.replaceStrings \fIfromList\fR \fItoList\fR \fIs\fR
For string \fIs\fR, replace all elements in \fIfromList\fR with the corresponding element in \fItoList\fR.

.TP
builtins.seq \fIe1\fR \fIe2\fR
Evaluate \fIe1\fR, then return \fIe2\fR.

.TP
builtins.sort \fIcompareFn\fR \fIlist\fR
Return \fIlist\fR as sorted by \fIcompareFn\fR.

.TP
builtins.split \fIregex\fR \fIs\fR
Return a list of non-matched strings interleaved with lists of matches of \fIregex\fR in \fIs\fR.
.TS
l l
---
l l.
Example	Output
builtins.split "," "a,b,c"	[ "a" [ ] "b" [ ] "c" ]
builtins.split "([ac])" "abc"	[ "" [ "a" ] "b" [ "c" ] "" ]
builtins.split "(a)|(c)" "abc"	[ "" [ "a" null ] "b" [ null "c" ] "" ]
.TE

.TP
builtins.splitVersion \fIs\fR
Split a version string \fIs\fR into parts.

.TP
builtins.stringLength \fIs\fR
Return the length of \fIs\fR.

.TP
builtins.sub \fIn1\fR \fIn2\fR
Subtract \fIn2\fR from \fIn1\fR.

.TP
builtins.substring \fIstart\fR \fIlen\fR \fIs\fR
Return \fIlen\fR characters from \fIs\fR, starting from \fIstart\fR (0-indexed).

.TP
builtins.tail \fIlist\fR
Return the last element of \fIlist\fR, aborting if there isn't one.

.TP
builtins.throw \fIs\fR
Throw error message \fIs\fR and abort evaluation.

.TP
builtins.toFile \fIname\fR \fIs\fR
Store \fIstr\fR in the Nix store with suffix \fIname\fR, and return the path.

.TP
builtins.toJSON \fIe\fR
Return a JSON representation of \fIe\fR as a string.

.TP
builtins.toString \fIe\fR
.TS
l l l
-----
l l l.
Input type	Example	Output
string	"foo"	"foo"
path	/foo/bar	"/foo/bar"
set	{ __toString = self: x; x = "foo"; };	foo
integer	3	"3"
list	["foo" "bar"]	"foo bar"
bool	true	"1"
bool	false	""
null	null	""
.TE

.TP
builtins.toXML \fIe\fR
Return an XML representation of \fIe\fR as a string, intended to be further transformed by XSLT. For example:
.PP
.RS
.nf
builtins.toXML [{ foo = "bar"; fooPath = /foo/bar; }] == ''
  <expr>
    <list>
      <attrs>
        <attr name="foo">
          <string value="bar"/ >
        </attr>
        <attr name="fooPath">
          <path value="/foo/bar"/ >
        </attr>
      </attrs>
    </list>
  </expr>
\&'';
.fi
.RE

.TP
builtins.trace \fIe1\fR \fIe2\fR
Evaluate \fIe1\fR and return \fIe2\fR.

.TP
builtins.tryEval \fIe\fR
Try to shallowly evaluate e. Return a set containing the attributes success (true if e evaluated successfully, false if an error was thrown) and value, equalling e if successful and false otherwise. Note that this doesn't evaluate e deeply, so let e = { x = throw ""; }; in (builtins.tryEval e).success will be true. Using builtins.deepSeq one can get the expected result: let e = { x = throw ""; }; in (builtins.tryEval (builtins.deepSeq e e)).success will be false.

.TP
builtins.typeOf \fIe\fR
Return the type of \fIe\fR, one of: "int", "bool", "string", "path", "null", "set", "list", "lambda", or "float".

.SH LINKS
.TP
The Nix builtins section of the Nix Manual
.I https://nixos.org/manual/nix/stable/#ssec-builtins
